content/publication/jamieson-2020/index.md, before:

---
title: "Active Reward Learning for Co-Robotic Vision Based Exploration in Bandwidth Limited Environments"
date: 2020-05-01
publishDate: 2020-03-12T03:18:37.679567Z
authors: ["Stewart Jamieson", "Jonathan P. How", "Yogesh Girdhar"]
publication_types: ["1"]
abstract: "We present a novel POMDP problem formulation for a robot that must autonomously decide where to go to collect new and scientifically relevant images, given a limited ability to communicate with its human operator. From this formulation we derive constraints and design principles for the observation model, reward model, and communication strategy of such a robot, exploring techniques to deal with the very high-dimensional observation space and scarcity of relevant training data. We introduce a novel active reward learning strategy based on making queries to help the robot minimize path ``regret'' online and evaluate it for suitability in autonomous visual exploration through simulations. We demonstrate that, in some bandwidth limited environments, this novel regret-based criterion enables the robotic explorer to collect up to 17% more reward per mission than the next-best criterion."
featured: false
publication: "*IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation*"
tags: ["⛔ No DOI found"]
url_pdf: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.05016"
url_video: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NH1G8u2hbEU"
---

Commit message:

Updated: publications to reflect new award

content/publication/jamieson-2020/index.md, after:

---
title: "Active Reward Learning for Co-Robotic Vision Based Exploration in Bandwidth Limited Environments"
date: 2020-05-01
publishDate: 2020-05-22T17:01:25.553702Z
authors: ["Stewart Jamieson", "Jonathan P. How", "Yogesh Girdhar"]
publication_types: ["1"]
abstract: "We present a novel POMDP problem formulation for a robot that must autonomously decide where to go to collect new and scientifically relevant images, given a limited ability to communicate with its human operator. From this formulation we derive constraints and design principles for the observation model, reward model, and communication strategy of such a robot, exploring techniques to deal with the very high-dimensional observation space and scarcity of relevant training data. We introduce a novel active reward learning strategy based on making queries to help the robot minimize path ``regret'' online and evaluate it for suitability in autonomous visual exploration through simulations. We demonstrate that, in some bandwidth limited environments, this novel regret-based criterion enables the robotic explorer to collect up to 17% more reward per mission than the next-best criterion."
featured: false
publication: "*2020 International Conference on Robotics and Automation*"
url_pdf: "https://arxiv.org/abs/2003.05016"
url_video: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NH1G8u2hbEU"
award: "Finalist for Best Paper Award in Service Robotics"
---
